# Fake-News-Project
In the news industry, in particular, but also in society at large, fake news detection has become a central discussion topic, as the need to permanently assess the veracity of digital content has been raised by the constant spread of false news / information. Information veracity is a long-term issue affecting society both for printed and digital media. The sensationalism of not-so-accurate eye catching and intriguing headlines aimed at retaining the attention of audiences to sell information has persisted all throughout the history of all kinds of information broadcast. On social networking websites, the reach and effects of information spread are however significantly amplified and occur at such a fast pace, that distorted, inaccurate or false information acquires a tremendous potential to cause real impacts, within minutes, for millions of users. Societal issues are being raised about the individuals’ ability to tell apart what is fake and what is authentic, while surfing and actively engaging in information overloaded networks. As reported by Anderson , youngsters are known to be tech-savvy when compared to their parents, but when it comes to the ability to tell if a news piece is fake or not, they seem as confused as the rest of the society and 44% have confirmed it in a research conducted by Common Sense Media. The same research also indicates that 31% of kids aged 10 to 18 have shared online at least one news story that they later found out was inaccurate or fake. This situation raises a whole new dimension of concerns related to digital literacy that go beyond the mere ability to access and manage technology. Together with societal challenges, there is a dramatic and inconspicuous situation happening in the media landscape, the public sphere and journalism industry that requires debate and examination, pointing out two main aspects. The first one relies on the fact that news publishers have lost control over the distribution of news, which are presented to Internet users by obscure and unpredictable algorithms. Also, news market newcomers (such as BuzzFeed, Vox and Fusion) have built their presence by embracing these technologies, undermining the long-term positions occupied by more traditional news publishers. The second aspect relies on the increasing power that social media companies, such as Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon, have gained in controlling who publishes what to whom, and how the publications are monetized. In the above context, establishing the reliability of online information is a daunting but critical current challenge 3 , demanding the attention, regulation and active monitoring of digital content spread by the major parties involved in sustaining how the information is presented and shared among people over the Internet, including search engines and social networking platforms. The fake news subject has become so prevalent that the Commons Culture, Media and Sport Committee is currently investigating concerns about the public being swayed by propaganda and untruths 4 . The curation of high-quality journalism is also at stake, since an increasing proportion of the adults are getting their news from social media and fictional stories are presented in such way that it can be very difficult to tell them apart from what is authentic.
storage space and communication bandwidth. End user is at risk of deleting legitimate mail by mistake. Moreover, spam also impacted the economical which led some countries to adopt legislation. 2 Text classification is used to determine the path of incoming mail/message either into inbox or straight to spam folder. It is the process of assigning categories to text according to its content. It is used to organized, structures and categorize text. It can be done either manually or automatically. Machine learning automatically classifies the text in a much faster way than manual technique. Machine learning uses pre-labelled text to learn the different associations between pieces of text and it output. It used feature extraction to transform each text to numerical representation in form of vector which represents the frequency of word in predefined dictionary. Text classification is important in the context of structuring the unstructured and messy nature of text such as documents and spam messages in a cost-effective way. A Machine learning platform has capabilities to improve the accuracy of predictions. With regard to Big Data, a Machine Learning platform has abilities to speed up analysing of gigantic data. It is important especially to a company to analyse text data, help inform business decisions and even automate business processes. For example, text classification is used in classifying short texts such as tweets or headlines. It can be used in larger documents such as media articles. It also can be applied to social media monitoring, brand monitoring and etc. In this project, a machine learning technique is used to detect the spam message of a mail. Machine learning is where computers can learn to do something without the need to explicitly program them for the task. It uses data and produce a program to perform a task such as classification. Compared to knowledge engineering, machine learning techniques require messages that have been successfully pre-classified. The pre-classified messages make the training dataset which will be used to fit the learning algorithm to the model in machine learning studio. 3 A specific algorithm is used to learn the classification rules from these messages. Those algorithms are used for classification of objects of different classes. The algorithms are provided with input and output data and have a self-learning program to solve the given task. Searching for the best algorithm and model can be time consuming. The two-class classifier is best used to classify the type of message either spam or ham. This algorithm is used to predict the probability and classification of data outcome.
